So now that you know how awesome bootstrap is let's see how we get started with it.
A quick note first about bootstrap versions though as you can see from get bootstrapped come on my computer
version 3 is currently the latest version but bootstrap 4 is on its way.
Although they're very similar in many ways.
Bootstrap four has got a lot of cool stuff and is a completely rewritten version of bootstrap 3.
So I'm going to be focusing on bootstrap for this course.
So that means if you're watching these videos and when you go to get bootstrapped to come it says version
3.
Then you should have a quick google for bootstrap for and then click on the top result.
So as I'm recording these videos bootstrapped for the alpha stage so I'm going to be using this Web
site.
But you might be using a different one if version 4 is in bita for example or if you go to get bootstrapped
Treptow come and it says currently version 4 then you can just use that version.
Either way I'd recommend starting off by clicking the big download boot strap button and then on my
page I'm going to click introduction and then scroll down.
And we'll see a nice starter template there if you're working on get bootstrapped up come then it's
a slightly different navigation you click the download button and then you scroll down until you see
the basic template.
So same thing with a slightly different way of getting that.
Either way selects the basic template.
So just command C or control C and then back over to brackets.
And I'm going to replace everything in my J query h g m l file and then I'm going to go file save as
and I'm going to create a new folder in my complete web developer folder
new folder and I'm going to call it 5 Dasch bootstrap
and the file I'll call strap TNL
that we get very quick challenge for you then.
Can you update the R L here so that we're looking at the bootstrap file rather than our old jay Querrey
one.
Go for it.
All right.
Hope you got what you need today is change for Jay Querrey to 5 dash bootstrap because that's the new
folder.
And then I called it bootstrapped our HMO and there we go.
So you can see the already out Hello world is nice and styled and looking good.
Great.
So we're all set up.
But just before we dive any deeper into bootstrap let's just make sure we understand what's going on.
In this example file that we've downloaded and I'm also going to change the layout a little bit to spread
it out.
And get rid of any comments because they look a bit messy.
OK.
So we're used to having each e-mail tag with a language attribute.
We've seen that before and then move up ahead.
We've got the character set UTF.
We've seen that before and we've also seen the viewport metal tag.
This is a the one that the X compatible tag.
Essentially it's a specific tag for Internet Explorer and it's used to control backward compatibility.
So essentially if we change this to content i.e. equals 8 then that would make every version of Internet
Explorer after version 8 render the site using its Internet Explorer 8 compatibility mode.
So this is just a way to be sure that your site will display correctly in future versions of Internet
Explorer.
Now we're designing our site when Internet Explorer edge is the latest version.
So this line is a kind of safety net that if the next version of Internet Explorer displays things or
works in a different way to edge then our site will force it to use the edge compatibility mode so that
our site will display how we expect it to.
So it's not a critical line there but that's what it does.
Right then we've got our bootstraps VSS.
We don't need a comment there I don't think.
Notice this is being loaded from a CDN bootstrap CD and or content delivery network.
We saw this with Jay query and Jay queery UI and we also heard why it's generally a good idea if you
do want to download bootstrap though and hosted on your own web site you can do that.
The options right there in the download section just copy the CSSA and javascript files and then reference
them on your own site rather than using the Cdn.
But I'm going to leave this as is the integrity attribute there just confirms that you are using the
version of file that you think you are and the cross origin attribute there just confirms that we're
using this resource anonymously and not sending any credentials or logging details to be able to use
it.
Note of course that if you're using a slightly different version of bootstrap to me you'll have a slightly
different you Ariail here and that's fine.
OK.
In the header and body tags we're used to H1 we're familiar with.
And then you can see we've got how Jay Querrey script and how bootstrap Cdn or content delivery network
bootstrap J.S. Neith it does have to be that way round because bootstrap depends on Jay query.
So if you try and put bootstrap first then a lot of the JavaScript aspects of P-trap won't work.
All right.
How that makes sense.
Now we've got bootstrap up and running.
We're going to be looking at a number of its features.
But the first is the most important and that is how it allows us to create responsive web sites.
It does that using grids.
We're going to take a good look at the bootstrap grid system in the next video.